Control Engineering
Hof University
Alfons Goppel Platz 1
95028 Hof

Lab Sessions Condition Monitoring and Predictive
Maintenance

Lab PMCM02
Regression, Classification

Prof. Dr.-Ing. V.Plenk

Version 0.3



1 Production Plant Data for Condition
Monitoring

[1] provides data for 8 run-to-failure experiments.

The data set contains a time stamp and 25 signals from 8 different components of the
device under test. For example, L1 could be the current of a stepper motor and L2 the
speed of that stepper motor. The data provides several characteristics per component. Ax,
Bx and Cx represent one component each. Lx represents the other 5 components: L1+L2,
L3+L6, L4+L5, L7+L8 and L9+L10.

There are several runs in the data set. Each letter describes one run. The runs for C7 and
C13 are split into two files because these runs had a short break. There is no information
about why. It could just be a short check. The break is about 100 timestamps long.

The 8 runs show a progression from the starting state (new components) to one or
more components being changed (component not working properly anymore), i.e. from
“young” / fully functional to “old” / broken. The exact timestamp of the failure is not
known, but it must be in the last observations. You can take the last 500 observations if
you want to be sure that you have the failure.

Figure 1.1: Timestamps in the CSV-files

2



2 Tasks

Task 1: Upload the CSV-files
Upload the CSV-Files to your instance of Jupyter-Labs on the iisys-server!

Task 2: Read the CSV-files
Create a Jupyter notebook to load the CSV-Files.
Look at the column-names and check whether the features were loaded correctly!

Task 3: Eliminate NAN-Values
Check the loaded data for NAN-Values and print a list of the Timestamp and the
feature names for each occurence of a NAN-Value!
Drop rows with NAN-Values!

Task 4: Calculate your own target vectors
Assume that the Timestamp in each CSV file is proportional to the wear of the
component. Based on this assumption, calculate your own target vectors!
One that contains the “lifetime” of the device from 0 % (“young” / fully functional)
to 100 % (“old” / broken) as a continuous variable to be used as a regression target.
One with for discrete age classes from “new” through “low-med”, “high-med” to
“old” – in 25 % intervals, i.e. 0 intervals, i.e. 0 . . . 25 %, 25 . . . 50 %, 50 . . . 75 %
and 75 to 100 % – as the classification target.
Note that each CSV file covers a different range of timestamps. This means that each
run of the device will have a different total lifetime in units of Timestamp.
Create a plot to show the progression of the new target variables over time as a curve!

Task 5: Scoring metrics
Define one appropriate numerical scoring metric for classification and one for regres-
sion models! (e.g. recall, RMS of error)
Define a threshold for the minimum acceptable result and justify the threshold!
Define one appropriate graphical scoring metric for classification and one for regres-
sion models! (e.g.: Confusion Matrix, Plot Predicted vs. True Value)
Define what the graph should look like for the minimum acceptable result!

3



2 Tasks

Task 6: Split the data into training and test data
Discuss different alternatives for dividing the data into training and test data! (e.g:
Random k-fold split, stratified split, split based on timestamp, split based on target
value)
Compare these alternatives in terms of “difficulty” for your method and “relevance”
for the for the intended application!

Task 7: Train and evaluate two models
Train at least one model for classification and one for regression! (E.g:
KKNeighborsClassifier and linear_model.Ridge() . . . )
Try at least two approaches to split the data into training and test data!
Score and rank your models according to your scoring metric!

4



Bibliography

[1] INIT, Artificial I.: Production Plant Data for Condition Moni-
toring. https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/inIT-OWL/
production-plant-data-for-condition-monitoring. Version: 08
2024

5